# CHIP-690-Final-Project

Turn in your cohort definition/computable phenotype and analysis plan. Write up a paragraph description of the cohort you’re planning to identify, as well as a description of the types of analyses you are planning to perform using MIMIC data about your cohort. Along with this description, submit your computable phenotype code that you plan to use to identify this population. (You do not need to submit any analysis code at this time.) 

The cohort we're planning to identify is patients with Colorectal Cancer. Our source for the ICD codes can be found [here](https://www.ambrygen.com/material/oncology/icd-10-code-reference-sheets/icd-10-codes-non-breast/631). Our population count is: 213. The types of analysis we propose to perform on this cohort are: identifying how age, gender, and race correlate to the disease as well as identifying the patients' locations to see if that has an impact on these patients' disease. Once we've gathered these results for our population, we wil further analyze the data using tools in pandas and python, by creating visualizations (line plots, bar graphs, etc.) for our results found in our earlier analysis. As suggested in the Bennett paper, we will create a patient age distribution bar graph and a geographic distribution bar graph. A machine learning technique we plan to utilize is K-means clustering; this clustering will help us analyze the groups in our data that are not labeled and help us find any uncommon patterns in the data.
